Different types of treatment are available for breast cancer. You and your cancer care team will work together to decide your treatment plan, which may include more than one type of treatment.

Your treatment options may include both local and systemic treatments. Local treatments, such as surgery and radiation, are directed at the area with cancer and not the whole body. Systemic treatments, such as chemotherapy, are drugs that can reach cancer cells throughout the body.

There are different treatment approaches for each type and stage of breast cancer. To learn more about treatment for specific types and stages of breast cancer, review What kind of treatment will I receive? below.

Consulte Tratamiento del cáncer de mama (seno) para obtener información sobre el tratamiento del cáncer de mama en español.

Joining a clinical trial may be an option. There are different types of clinical trials for people with breast cancer. You can use the clinical trial search to find NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are accepting participants.

You can also review a list of all current NCI-supported Breast Cancer Clinical Trials. For help finding a clinical trial, contact NCI’s Cancer Information Service.

Learn about surgery to treat breast cancer and access more information about lumpectomy and mastectomy, the two main types of surgery used.

You may receive radiation therapy as part of your breast cancer treatment. Learn about the types of radiation therapy and possible side effects.

Not everyone with breast cancer will get chemotherapy. Learn about who gets chemo and why and find a list of drugs that may be prescribed.

Hormone therapy helps lower the risk of recurrence of certain types of breast cancer. Learn about types of hormone therapy, common side effects, and more.

Immunotherapy may be used to treat triple-negative breast cancer. Learn about immunotherapy, when it is given, and common side effects.

Targeted therapy is a treatment for certain types of breast cancer. Learn about types of targeted therapy, common side effects, and more.

The stage of breast cancer is an important factor in determining which type of treatment may work best for you. Learn more about treatment options for breast cancer by stage.

Learn about breast cancer during pregnancy, including challenges in detection and options for treatment in women who are pregnant or breastfeeding.

DCIS is diagnosed when abnormal cells are found in the milk ducts of the breast. Learn more about DCIS, including treatment options and prognosis.

Inflammatory breast cancer treatments may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and more. Learn about the different ways inflammatory breast cancer can be treated.

Triple-negative breast cancer treatments may include surgery, chemotherapy, and more. Learn about the different ways triple-negative breast cancer can be treated.

Paget disease of the breast involves the nipple and areola. Learn about symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of this rare type of breast cancer.